JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
From Trump Tower to Twitter, the
president-elect
continues to shake up tradition
by attacking
the Boeing company's plans to
build a new
Air Force One.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also ahead
this Wednesday:
The Pentagon hides a study that
exposes $125
billion in wasteful spending,
fearing Congress
would cut its defense budget.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Plus: a passion
for improvisation.
Two jazz greats open up to
Jeffrey Brown about
their new album and staying in
the moment.
JOSHUA REDMAN, Saxophonist: It's
an emotional,
it's an intuitive process.
I mean, of course it's happening
in the brain,
right, but if I'm thinking about
responding
in that way, then I'm
overthinking it.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All that and
more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: He is spending
most of his
time out of public view, but,
today, president-elect
Trump was suddenly much more
visible.
Items on his agenda: the cost of
new presidential
aircraft and prospects for new
jobs in the
telecommunications industry.
The day started with a surprise
appearance
in the lobby of Trump Tower in
New York.
Mr. Trump lit into the Boeing
company over
its contract to build two new
versions of
Air Force One.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: It's going
to be over $4 billion for the
Air Force One
program.
And I think it's ridiculous.
I think Boeing is doing a little
bit of a
number.
We want Boeing to make a lot of
money, but
not that much money.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Earlier, on
Twitter, he had
gone further, saying the
government should
cancel the order with Boeing.
Boeing's initial contract was
for roughly
$3 billion, but costs have been
rising.
Still, the White House said
today it has no
idea where the president-elect
got his $4
billion figure.
Boeing said in a statement that
it hopes to
deliver the best planes for the
president
at the best value for the
American taxpayer.
Later, another sudden
appearance, this time
with Japanese billionaire
Masayoshi Son, CEO
of SoftBank, a Japanese tech and
telecom company.
DONALD TRUMP: And he's just
agreed to invest
$50 billion in the United States
and 50,000
jobs.
And he's one of the great men of
industry,
so I just want to thank you very
much.
MASAYOSHI SON, CEO, SoftBank:
Thank you.
DONALD TRUMP: Thank you very
much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There was also
news that the
president-elect has divested
himself of his
entire stock portfolio.
His transition team said he sold
it off back
in June.
The statement gave no details,
amounts or
documentation for the stock
sales, all of
this as meetings with potential
staff and
Cabinet nominees continued,
including the
CEO of ExxonMobil, Rex
Tillerson, said to
be a candidate for secretary of
state, talk
radio host Laura Ingraham, a
possibility for
White House press secretary, and
Iowa Governor
Terry Branstad, who could be up
for a diplomatic
post.
Mr. Trump will visit Iowa later
this week
as part of a thank you tour that
began last
week in Ohio.
The tour also carried him to
Fayetteville,
North Carolina, for a rally this
evening.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In the day's
other news:
President Obama defended his
record fighting
terrorism in his last major
national security
speech before leaving office.
Mr. Obama traveled to MacDill
Air Force Base
in Tampa, Florida, home to the
Special Operations
and Central Commands.
The president told the troops
that he's led
a relentless assault on the
Islamic State,
but he also warned against
targeting Muslims
in the name of battling
extremism.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
The United States of America is
not a place
where some citizens have to
withstand greater
scrutiny or carry a special I.D.
card or prove
that they are not an enemy from
within.
We are a country that has bled
and struggled
and sacrificed against that kind
of discrimination.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The president
also denounced
any use of torture, defended
drone strikes
and urged again that the U.S.
prison at Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba, be closed.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In Iraq, army
units made a
new push toward the center of
Mosul today.
Islamic State fighters had tied
up the Iraqi
forces on the southeastern side
of the city
for nearly a month.
But, this morning, an armored
division launched
a fresh assault.
A senior commander says they
moved within
a mile of the Tigris River,
backed up by U.S.
airstrikes.
HARI SREENIVASAN: A human rights
group is
accusing China's Communist Party
of systematically
using torture and coerced
confessions against
members accused of corruption.
It's part of President Xi
Jinping's sweeping
anti-graft campaign, now in its
fourth year.
Human Rights Watch says it found
widespread
abuse at interrogation and
detention sites
that are outside China's
official criminal
justice system.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back in this
country, crews
have now searched nearly all of
the Oakland,
California, warehouse that went
up in flames
during a music party, leaving at
least 36
people dead.
Officials say they do not expect
to find more
bodies.
Overnight, firefighters
stabilized parts of
the gutted building to continue
the search
today.
They say they hope to finish the
job tonight.
The cause of the fire is still
under investigation.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The U.S.
Supreme Court sided
today with Samsung, in a
high-profile patent
fight with Apple.
All eight justices voted to
throw out a $399
million judgment against Samsung
for copying
features of Apple's iPhone.
The high court said the award
was too large,
and ordered a federal appeals
panel to come
up with a new amount.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Wall Street edged
higher again
today, with telecom companies
leading the
way.
The Dow Jones industrial average
gained 35
points to close at 19251.
The Nasdaq rose 24, and the S&P
500 added
seven.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Still to come
on the "NewsHour":
the buried Pentagon report
showing $125 billion
in waste; a bipartisan bill that
funds Joe
Biden's Cancer Moonshot; Liberia
experiments
with privatizing its education
system; and
much more.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Every few years,
Pentagon leaders
conduct efficiency reviews,
looking for ways
to save money.
Two years ago, Deputy Defense
Secretary Robert
Work commissioned a study that
looked at how
much the Defense Department
spent on things
like its supply chain, property
management
and health care.
But according to The Washington
Post, when
the results came back that said
an estimated
$125 billion could be saved over
five years,
the report was buried by top
Pentagon officials.
Reporter Craig Whitlock broke
the story for
The Post, and he is here now to
tell us more.
Craig Whitlock, tell us how all
this started.
Why did -- why was the study
ordered in the
first place?
CRAIG WHITLOCK, The Washington
Post: Well,
a couple years ago, the
Pentagon's budget,
the defense budget, was under a
lot of pressure.
It had been flat for a few
years, and military
leaders were worried that, under
sequestration
and the Budget Control Act, that
they could
actually be forced to stomach
some pretty
substantial cuts in the coming
years.
So, Deputy Defense Secretary Bob
Work ordered
a federal advisory panel of
private sector
executives to start collecting a
lot of data
about how much the Pentagon
spends on its
back office functions as a way
to find ways
to save money.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And the work --
the study got
under way.
They asked them to do it in a
relatively short
period of time, just a few
months.
It wasn't easy to do.
I gather there wasn't a great
deal of cooperation
across the board.
But they did come back with a
report.
And what did it find?
CRAIG WHITLOCK: Well, what they
found was
pretty striking.
This is kind of hard, I think,
for most folks
to understand.
But the Pentagon actually up
until then had
no idea how many contractors
actually worked
for it.
So they were trying to figure
out how many
people worked in its business
operations.
And they found that more than
one million
people worked in these core
business operations,
like you said, health care
management, human
resources, property management,
things that
any organization needs.
But, you know, even for the
Pentagon, one
million is a lot of people.
These are essentially desk jobs.
And that compares to only 1.3
million active-duty
troops.
So the backing of the Pentagon
was almost
as big as, you know, the tip of
the spear,
so to speak.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Secretary
Work, number
two man at the Pentagon, when he
and others
saw this report, what did they
do?
CRAIG WHITLOCK: Well, they had
touted this
in advance, saying this was
going to be really
important, and that they had
asked these private
sector executives to help them
make sure that
the report didn't gather dust
and that they
would, you know, pass all these
-- or adopt
these recommendations.
But when the numbers came back
much bigger
than they thought, and the
recommendation
that they could save $125
billion over five
years, effectively, they buried
and killed
the study.
The data that had been collected
internally
for the first time to pinpoint
how many people
worked in these jobs was kept
secret.
It is still classified and
confidential.
We worked hard for months to get
our hands
on it.
We were unable to.
And I was working with Bob
Woodward, my colleague
here at The Post, who is pretty
good at that
stuff.
To this day, they have kept that
data confidential.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But the -- and
you write the
reason it seemed that they
wanted this buried
was that they were afraid that,
if this information
came out, that Congress wouldn't
appropriate
what he and others thought the
Pentagon needed
to get in terms of future
appropriations.
CRAIG WHITLOCK: That's right.
There's a political calculation.
They were worried that members
of Congress
would say, look, you have been
asking us for
more money.
You have been saying the troops
need more
money, you need more funds for
ships and tanks
and airplane, but, look, your
own report,
your own data show that you
could save $125
billion.
Why are you asking us for more?
So they were worried Congress
would cut the
budget, instead of them giving
them more.
So that's when they decided this
wasn't something
they wanted to act on and that
they wanted
to keep it quiet.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Craig
Whitlock, what's
the fallout from this today?
How is the Pentagon dealing with
this disclosure?
CRAIG WHITLOCK: Well, I think
the Pentagon
is -- it's very uncomfortable
for them.
They don't dispute the numbers
here.
They don't dispute that there's
a million
people working in their back
office jobs.
They don't dispute that the
study found they
could save that much money.
They do say it would take more
time, that
maybe it wasn't practical to do
this so quickly.
But what they're feeling today
is some pressure
from Congress, members of
Congress, members
of the Armed Services
Committees.
They're saying at a minimum the
Pentagon owes
it to the American public to
release this
data showing how all this money
could be saved.
And I think the Pentagon's
concerned.
They want to see how
president-elect Trump
reacts.
Here's a guy who campaigned on a
platform
for a major military buildup,
and he said
he would pay for it by cutting
waste and abuse
in the military budget.
He wasn't very specific about
how he would
do that, but, you know, here's a
blueprint
for how they could save a
substantial amount
of money.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, speaking of
the president-elect
and speaking of Pentagon
spending, separately
from all this, the
president-elect today tweeted
and then talked to the press --
and we showed
this just a moment ago -- that
he's upset
about how much he says it's
going to -- the
Boeing company is going to be
charging to
build two new Air Force Ones.
We know there are two of these
airplanes that
carry the president around.
Do we know for a fact from
Boeing that that's
how much these planes are now
supposed to
cost?
CRAIG WHITLOCK: Well, you know,
he's actually
pretty close on that, Donald
Trump, when he
says $4 billion.
Now, that's over the whole
program.
That's the cost of developing
and designing
these airplanes and to build and
to buy them.
Boeing doesn't have all those
contracts yet,
but it really is the inside
track.
It's the only company the
Pentagon has been
dealing with to work on this.
But over the next several years,
the Pentagon
has projected or set aside $3.9
billion for
these two airplanes.
Now, one reason it costs so much
is that these
aren't just Boeing 747 passenger
planes.
They have to be equipped as
essentially an
airborne command center for the
commander
in chief.
He has to be able to issue
orders in case
of nuclear war.
It has to have anti-missile
defenses, electromagnetic
defenses.
So, these are pretty fancy
essentially warplanes
and command centers.
That said, president-elect Trump
is saying,
do we need to be spending that
much on them?
JUDY WOODRUFF: And very quickly,
Craig Whitlock,
is it believed that Boeing will
now hold the
costs down as a result of the
president-elect's
comments?
CRAIG WHITLOCK: Well, I think
it's fair to
say it's making a lot of people
at Boeing
and the Air Force squirm a bit.
Now they're going -- they have
already had
some scrutiny from Congress on
this program.
But they know now there is going
to be a new
commander in chief who,
symbolically, one
of the first things he's done to
point out
alleged Pentagon waste is point
at this program.
So, you know, I think they're
going to go
back to the drawing board and
they're going
to have to justify the
projections.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Craig Whitlock,
great reporting
by you and Bob Woodward at The
Washington
Post.
We thank you.
CRAIG WHITLOCK: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: While most
attention has
been focused on the action at
Trump Tower
in Manhattan, lawmakers at the
U.S. Capitol
are close to passing a major
bill that would
lead to big changes with drug
approval, medical
research and much more.
Lisa Desjardins kicks off our
coverage with
this report.
LISA DESJARDINS: Weeks from the
end of its
term, Congress is on the verge
of passing
a whopper of a bipartisan bill.
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY), Majority
Leader: This
legislation promotes critical
investments
in research.
SEN.
HARRY REID (D-NV), Minority
Leader: We're
going to pass the Cures Act.
LISA DESJARDINS: A godsend to
supporters,
a spending spree or corporate
giveaway to
critics, here's a look at the
21st century
medical cures bill.
It is a mammoth $6 billion
measure, now four
major pieces of legislation
packed in one,
starting with a giant nearly $5
billion shot
of funding to the National
Institutes of Health
for research.
That includes almost $2 billion
for the Moonshot
effort led by Vice President Joe
Biden to
find a cure for cancer praised
in a White
House Web video today.
JOSEPH BIDEN, Vice President of
the United
States: A lot of lives will be
affected by
this bill, God willing.
LISA DESJARDINS: That's one
reason many Democrats
are on board.
Another?
The bill now includes $1 billion
to address
the opioid epidemic.
It's a national crisis that's
been in funding
limbo for months.
A third major piece?
Mental health reform, including
a new assistant
secretary position for mental
health and substance
use.
Republican Tim Murphy, a
psychologist, has
pushed for this for years.
REP.
TIM MURPHY (R), Pennsylvania:
This doesn't
end the scourge of mental
illness, but this
puts us on a path to really make
some substantial
change and give people help.
LISA DESJARDINS: Now for what
Republican leaders
love, the bill's core, reforming
and speeding
up the Food and Drug
Administration's drug
approval process.
To some, that's modernization
that cuts red
tape, but to others it's a
safety risk.
And some lawmakers see it as a
gift to drug
companies.
Those voices are led by
Massachusetts Senator
Elizabeth Warren.
SEN.
ELIZABETH WARREN (D),
Massachusetts: I cannot
vote for this bill.
I will fight it, because I know
the difference
between compromise and
extortion.
LISA DESJARDINS: But she is in
the minority.
The bill has received bipartisan
support in
Congress so far, and the
president plans to
sign it into law.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Let's dive a
little deeper
now into this bill, what would
change, and
some of the criticisms around
it.
For that, we're joined by two
reporters who
have covered this field
extensively, Sydney
Lupkin of Kaiser Health News,
and Ed Silverman,
senior writer with STAT News, a
site covering
medicine and health care.
So, Sydney Lupkin, let's start
with what does
or doesn't happen to the FDA.
There's been a lot about that.
What's the biggest potential
change?
SYDNEY LUPKIN, Kaiser Health
News: Sure.
So, one of the things that
happens for the
FDA is, it gets another $500
million over
10 years.
It also has more hiring power to
fill the
hundreds of vacancies that it
has as a result
of new initiatives, new laws
other over the
years.
So, that's one thing that does
happen to it.
But the big thing is that it
really sort of
makes the approval standards a
bit more flexible
for drug and device
manufacturers.
HARI SREENIVASAN: OK.
Ed Silverman, if this
flexibility increases,
is the FDA stick on the hook if
something
goes wrong?
ED SILVERMAN, STAT News: Yes,
it's a double-edged
sword for the agency, because on
the one hand
there will be a new process that
could be
in place.
The agency will have to come up
with a guidance,
as it's called, a program that
will determine
whether or not it can use
different data to
evaluate the approval process
for new indications
or new uses for existing
medicines.
The catch with that could be
that, if something
goes awry, the agency is still
on the hook.
Let's say there's patient harm,
for instance.
So that's the downside, because,
at the end
of the day, it's the regulator
who is typically
blamed when something goes
wrong.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And, Ed, this
has already
gotten pushback from the likes
of Bernie Sanders
and Elizabeth Warren.
ED SILVERMAN: Right.
Well, the concern is that, in
making the approval
process more flexible for new
uses for existing
medicines, it's actually
lowering the standards,
because of instead of using what
is considered
the gold standard, randomized
control trial,
the new approach would allow the
agency possibly
to look at other sorts of data,
something
like safety surveillance data,
patient-reported
outcomes, these observational
studies.
These are the sorts of things
that are legitimately
useful and tell us real things,
but they're
not the same as having a
full-blown trial.
And that's the sort of tool that
is used to
determine the safety and
effectiveness of
any medicine.
So, that's a big potential
difference.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And, Sydney
Lupkin, that
also affects the bottom line of
pharmaceutical
companies, because while the
clinically approved
double blind is the gold
standard, it's also
pretty time- money-expensive.
SYDNEY LUPKIN: It's more
expensive.
So, this does stand to save them
a lot of
money, which is why they lobbied
for it.
There was a lot of lobbying
activity on this
bill, more than 1,400 registered
lobbyists
on it representing 400 different
organizations,
many of them pharma.
Yes, it stands to save them a
lot of money.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, a lot of
people, whether
it's people who are dealing with
the impacts
of opioid abuse or hospitals
that are focused
on research, they have been for
it.
They stand to benefit from this.
SYDNEY LUPKIN: Right, because of
the NIH funding
in the bill.
The NIH is the National
Institutes of Health,
and, basically, a lot of that
money will wind
up going into grants that go to
hospitals,
that go to universities, that go
to different
labs to do research.
Mostly -- you have all heard of
Joe Biden's
Cancer Moonshot.
There's also a -- something
called the brain
initiative to sort of study the
brain more,
Alzheimer's, understand more
about how it
works, that you can prevent
things, and precision
medicine, which is, to very much
simplify
it, a lot of genetics research.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Ed Silverman,
how about
the appropriations of this?
If it's not the Cancer Moonshot
or brain research,
and if it's not one of those
marquee things
that people care about, what
happens to the
rest of these huge amounts of
dollars, and
is it a guarantee that it will
happen year
after year?
ED SILVERMAN: Well, it all
sounds wonderful,
but the money has to be
appropriated.
So, from day one, we have that
question hanging
over the entire effort.
Will that money actually go as
intended to
the right agencies, so it can do
the work?
Presumably, the FDA will get
funds, so they
can have more resources to take
on things
like different approval
processes.
But the money's got to be there.
So, if it's not appropriated,
well, then where
are we?
The agency will end up having
more work without
the added resources.
And I think that's one of the
struggles that
has made the process over the
past few weeks
and months difficult to sort out
and really
feel comfortable that Congress
is going to
do what it says it will do.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, Sydney
Lupkin, there
seems to be a shift away from
preventative
measures in parts of the bill.
SYDNEY LUPKIN: What the bill
does is, is takes
away, I believe, $3.5 billion in
funding for
preventative medicine, funds set
up under
Obamacare to study things like
Alzheimer's,
chronic conditions,
hospital-acquired infection.
And, of course, the goal of that
fund is to
study these things so that then
it ultimately
saves the health care system
money.
If you can prevent something,
you don't have
to spend as much money treating
it.
And that had been mandatory
funding.
So now it will get about 30
percent less than
it had.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Ed Silverman,
when it comes
to big pharma companies, drug
prices are something
that consumers care about,
something that
even hospitals and different
insurance companies
are trying to figure out a way
to decrease.
Does this tackle that at all?
ED SILVERMAN: No, not really.
And I think that that's one
problem that Congress
is going to have to face up to,
whether it
likes it or not.
It may not be in this
legislation, given that
the Senate vote appears to be
near, at this
point anyway.
So the bill doesn't really
address some of
the fundamental challenges and
issues that
are inherently problematic right
now in the
pricing system in this country.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Is this just
the general
nature of such a large omnibus
bill?
ED SILVERMAN: Yes.
It's almost the kitchen sink
approach, but
not quite, because Congress is
trying to pick
and choose a little bit of
what's easiest
and what it's most ideologically
comfortable
pursuing.
For all the detail -- and there
are close
to 1,000 pages in this bill --
it really doesn't
address everything.
And, unfortunately, we discuss
pricing.
That's not really mentioned here
in a way
that's going to be meaningful
for Americans.
And while there may be portions
that are helpful,
there are portions that are also
problematic,
as I mentioned before, with
concerns about
the FDA approval process and
what that means
down the road for patient
safety.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right, Ed
Silverman
of STAT News and Sydney Lupkin
of Kaiser Health
News, thanks so much.
SYDNEY LUPKIN: Thank you.
ED SILVERMAN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
when it's not
just children who are distracted
by their
devices; a guide to creating a
presidential
administration ready on day one;
and two jazz
greats improvise their live
performance.
But first: how one for-profit
school model
is being tested to help
revitalize a school
system in West Africa.
Our story is in Liberia, a
country founded
by freed American slaves with a
history marked
by suffering, including two
recent civil wars
and the Ebola epidemic.
Today, the government is trying
to rebuild
a shattered nation, but a move
to employ a
for-profit American education
company has
drawn controversy.
Special correspondent Fred de
Sam Lazaro reports
as part of our weekly education
series on
Making the Grade.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: It's Friday
morning, and
the children at this public
elementary school
are singing patriotic songs that
honor their
country's founding by freed
American slaves.
And as the U.S.-inspired flag is
being raised,
so too are hopes about how
public education
can be quickly and dramatically
improved.
These students are part of a
grand experiment
to see if a private for-profit
U.S.-based
company can turn things around
in a nation
utterly destroyed by a 14-year
long civil
war and a recent battle with
Ebola.
The president of Liberia has
called the country's
education system a mess.
What did she mean?
Consider this statistic: In
2013, not one
of 25,000 high school graduates
in this country
managed to pass the college
entrance exam
for the University of Liberia.
The experiment to bring in
private partners
was designed by Education
Minister George
Werner, who took office 15
months ago, hired
by the president, he says, to
act quickly.
GEORGE WERNER, Liberian
Education Minister:
If we stayed the course,
followed the traditional
ways of doing things, we
wouldn't catch up
with our neighboring
counterparts.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Werner had
been impressed
during a visit to Kenya, where
the U.S. company
Bridge International Academies
operates more
than 350 private schools.
In Liberia, where average annual
household
income is less than $500, Werner
knew most
families could not afford the
monthly $6 fee
that Bridge charges per child in
those other
countries.
But he had an idea.
GEORGE WERNER: What if we had a
hybrid for
public and private?
There are certain things that
the private
sector does better than the
public sector.
Government can come up with the
policies,
but management systems and
service delivery,
often, the private sector does
better than
the government.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Werner hired
seven private
organizations to run a total of
94 primary
schools.
Bridge, the only for-profit,
runs 24 of them.
Josh Nathan is the company's
academic director.
JOSH NATHAN, Academic Director,
Bridge International
Academies: What the government
has done in
Liberia is quite courageous.
They've said, we're struggling
with providing
children this basic right, so
what we want
to do is look around, look
inside Liberia
and outside Liberia, at other
people who are
succeeding in providing children
with an excellent
education.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: The
government agreed
to pay the companies directly,
so education
remains free for families.
The companies also provide
uniforms, which
are required at public schools
and whose cost
keeps many from attending.
When we visited the Bridge
school in Kendaja,
the semester was only two weeks
underway,
and many of the uniforms had not
yet arrived.
MAGDALENE BROWN, Bridge School
Principal:
Today is a wonderful day for us
too.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Principal
Magdalene Brown
said the improvements were
already very apparent.
For one thing, there's a much
longer school
day.
Last year, it was just four
hours a day.
MAGDALENE BROWN: Bridge has us
come to school
much earlier, like we at 7:30,
and then Bridge
have us stay on until 3:30 every
day.
And that means the children will
learn better.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Even the
students seem
to like it more, including
15-year-old Mercy
Freeman.
MERCY FREEMAN, Student: We come
to school
on time.
We sit in class.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: And school
actually runs
like a school?
MERCY FREEMAN: Yes.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: There are
also new rules,
such as no more corporal
punishment.
And along with new textbooks,
every teacher
is given a computer tablet and
is required
to stick to pre-loaded lesson
plans.
Critics of this so-called
school-in-a-box
approach say it encourages
robotic teaching
and has allowed Bridge in other
countries
to hire cheaper, less qualified
instructors.
That's less of an issue in
Liberia, where
Bridge schools retrain teachers
who are already
working in the school system and
where many
had their own education
disrupted by the civil
war.
In this building, teachers
seemed grateful
for the guidance.
Amos Jumanine has taught for
seven years,
but says he was a late bloomer.
AMOS JUMANINE, Teacher: I was 17
years when
I started ABCs.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: You went to
kindergarten
learning your ABCs when you were
17?
AMOS JUMANINE: Yeah, 17.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: He is
hopeful the new
partnership will be good for the
students.
But he is adamant on one thing
that needs
to change: Teachers need to be
paid more money,
especially now that they're
required to work
longer hours.
AMOS JUMANINE: I cannot afford
to buy food
for myself.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Financially,
it's very
difficult?
AMOS JUMANINE: Yes, financially.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Very
difficult.
AMOS JUMANINE: Very difficult.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Teachers in
Liberia earn
about $100 a month, and many say
they take
second jobs just to make ends
meet.
That contributes to one of the
biggest problems
in Liberian schools: chronic
teacher absenteeism.
Not only are teachers routinely
absent.
Many really never existed, just
their names
on paychecks issued by the
schools.
Education Minister Werner says
he's purged
about 1,300 so-called ghost
teachers, saving
$2 million that was being
siphoned away in
fraud.
JOSH NATHAN: The president
herself has acknowledged
that this is a system that is
really a mess.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Josh Nathan
says the Bridge
schools use software in the
teachers' tablets
to track their daily attendance.
JOSH NATHAN: We think this is
incredibly important
to creating accountability and
being able
to watch every single day, where
are our teachers,
are they where they need to be?
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: For their
part, the teachers
union is strongly opposed to the
partnership
program.
It points out that these new
schools have
smaller class size, around 45 to
55 pupils,
and receive about $10 to $15
more per student
than regular public schools.
Union leaders say their teachers
could get
even better outcomes than Bridge
if they were
given that extra money and
smaller classes.
If you had the right conditions
and a better
salary, a lot of the problem
would be solved?
MARY MULBAH, Teachers Union:
Yes.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: And when you
argued this,
what were you told?
MARY MULBAH: The ministry,
they're not even
listening to the teachers.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Mary Mulbah
blames corruption
at the ministry for hiring the
ghost teachers
and alleges the ministry is
using its purges
to target union activists.
Immanuel Morris, who was in a
government program
to train and hire new teachers,
says his name
was deleted.
Are you a ghost?
IMMANUEL MORRIS, Union Activist:
I'm not a
ghost, and I can prove that.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: They're
calling you a
ghost.
IMMANUEL MORRIS: That is what
I'm saying.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: And you're
not a ghost?
IMMANUEL MORRIS: I'm not a
ghost.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Union
leaders also question
whether such programs could be
scaled up to
serve the 2,750 elementary
schools across
the country.
Minister Werner knows there are
risks, but
says the government has a moral
obligation
to take drastic measures.
GEORGE WERNER: It's not a
panacea.
And it may just not work.
But we should not just fold our
arms and do
nothing.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO:
Sixty-one-year-old Marie
Jaynes couldn't agree more.
She herself had to drop out of
school in fourth
grade.
She now sells water at the side
of the road
to support her three
grandchildren, their
parents killed in the civil war.
Jaynes says the new school will
give her grandchildren
a better life than she has had.
MARIE JAYNES, Grandmother: What
hope for them
is to go far in school, for them
to know the
importance of school.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: They are the
first of
three generations in her family
that might
enjoy the privileges of at least
a primary
school education.
For the "PBS NewsHour," this is
Fred de Sam
Lazaro in Kendaja, Liberia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A version of this
story aired
on the PBS program "Religion &
Ethics Newsweekly."
Fred's reporting is a
partnership with the
Under-Told Stories Project at
University of
St. Thomas in Minnesota.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We have spent
our share
of time looking at how kids and
teens spend
time with their screens.
Now there's a new survey that
finds their
parents have some of the same
habits.
The study, which asked for
feedback from 1,700
parents of children age 8 to 18,
found adults
spending more than nine hours a
day themselves
looking at video screens.
Yet, even as they are worried
about how much
time their children spend
watching screens,
nearly 80 percent of parents
felt they were
good role models for their kids
when it came
to this.
Jim Steyer is the founder and
CEO of Common
Sense Media, which conducted the
survey.
My jaw is still on the floor
about the nine
hours.
That seems unbelievable.
You have got to be counting
stuff that I do
at work and my laptop.
JAMES STEYER, Founder and CEO,
Common Sense
Media: It's astounding to me,
too.
I thought it was going to be
about four hours.
Right?
I thought it would be four,
four-and-a-half-hours.
The truth is, though, it's only
an hour-and-a-half
of work time.
So that means seven hours and 45
minutes per
day, the average American parent
is spending
with screen media at home.
It was shocking.
And they think they're good role
models.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, that's the
other part,
that while they try to tell
their kids, get
off your phone and pay attention
and talk
to each other, under the table,
they're checking
their e-mail.
JAMES STEYER: That's exactly
right.
And, actually, I do think that's
what the
bottom line about this whole
survey is.
First of all, nobody ever asked
parents.
As you mentioned in the opening,
we have looked
at how much time kids do,
whether they're
age 8 to 18 or zero to 8, but
nobody ever
asked parents.
And I thought parents were much
more controlled.
But the truth is, everybody is
addicted to
their devices these days.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And you
actually started
to break it down by income level
and ethnicity.
JAMES STEYER: Right.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You started to
see some
patterns emerged.
JAMES STEYER: The most
interesting pattern
is that Latino families are more
than twice
as concerned about and engaged
in their kids'
media consumption as white or
African-American
or Asian American parents.
So, there is a big cultural
difference, and
I think a very laudable one, in
the Latino
community.
They're more concerned about
cyber-bullying,
about pornography, about issues.
And then they set tougher
limits.
And I actually think it shows a
cultural tendency
toward family that's good, that
we should
all learn from.
HARI SREENIVASAN: It also seems
to be that
the more they know about what
their kids are
doing, the less worried they
are.
JAMES STEYER: I think that's
true in general.
Your kids are going to get older
sooner than
you think, Hari.
And when you do know more, I
think you relax
and think, I can teach them
judgment and values.
But I think parents today are
just blown away
by the surfeit of digital media
platforms
that we all live with.
They don't understand Snapchat
or Instagram,
but they're using them
themselves more than
they were once.
I think the number, nine hours,
is shocking.
TV is still the number-one
medium that parents
like, but they are spending time
on the same
platforms that their kids are.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And how do
they feel about
social media for their kids?
JAMES STEYER: Mixed.
Very mixed.
And I actually think that's
really true about
media and technology in general.
On the one hand, parents think
their kids
have to learn technology for
education, for
jobs, for 21st century skills.
Like, 94 percent of parents
agree that technology
is really good.
On the other hand, they're
worried about tech
addiction, lack of sleep,
cyber-bullying,
pornography, all the downsides.
So, it's a nuanced picture.
And I think it reflects the way
I feel as
a parent of four kids, too.
They have got to be there.
And actually they have to
understand social
media.
But I'm worried about what might
happen to
them.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And in this
day and age,
you go to classrooms, so many of
them are
wired or wireless, and kids are
connected
to laptops.
Sometimes, they're bringing that
software
home.
It's necessary for homework.
JAMES STEYER: That's right.
And we believe strongly in that
at Common
Sense.
We now have 130,000 member
schools.
So, the vast majority of
American schools
are members of Common Sense
Media and use
a curriculum we developed with
Harvard professors
called Digital Literacy and
Citizenship.
So, technology -- comma -- used
wisely -- comma
-- is an extraordinary
educational tool.
But used inappropriately, it can
cause all
sorts of problems.
And I actually think that's
clearly now as
true for parents as it is for
our kids.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Were there any
clear rules
of the road that these parents
advocated for?
JAMES STEYER: Well, it's
interesting.
As you mentioned in the opening,
nearly 80
percent of parents say that
they're good role
models.
But you would think, therefore,
that they're
doing three or four hours a day.
The truth is, the big thing that
we have seen
and we have promoted at Common
Sense is what
we call device-free dinner,
meaning have family
meals, not just dinner, but all
family meals.
Get rid of the phones, get rid
of your laptops,
get rid of all those devices,
and just be
there with your kids, and create
sacred spaces,
what our colleague at MIT Sherry
Turkle refers
to as sacred spaces, where there
is just no
device in between you and your
children.
So, parents say they do that,
but the numbers
sort of belie that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What about any
kind of long-term
effects?
Relatively speaking, smartphones
are still
pretty new in the long arc of
technology.
JAMES STEYER: Yes.
You know, I think it has an
enormous impact
on everything from empathy -- if
you're constantly
looking down at your phone, as
opposed to
talking to your kid, I think it
has an effect
on your relationship with that
child.
I think, with younger kids,
there's brain
development issues.
At my age, I don't -- whatever
little brain
I have is probably developed as
much as it's
going to be.
But I think it has to do with
long-term effects
on family relationships, human
interaction.
And the positives are the
educational opportunities,
the chance to connect with
people around the
world.
So, it's all about how you use
it, and I actually
think setting limits, too, and a
healthy media
diet.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right, Jim
Steyer, Common
Sense Media, thanks so much.
JAMES STEYER: Great to be here,
Hari.
JUDY WOODRUFF: With
president-elect Trump
focused on preparing to take
office in January,
we return now to the transition
process from
one president to the next.
I sat down recently with Max
Stier, no relation
to the Jim Steyer we just heard
from.
Max Stier is president and CEO
of the Partnership
for Public Service and an expert
on presidential
transitions.
Max Stier, welcome to the
"NewsHour."
You have published this
presidential transition
guide.
And you have also called the
Trump transition
the biggest takeover in history
of an organization.
Seriously?
MAX STIER, President and CEO,
Partnership
for Public Service: Seriously.
You think about the United
States government,
you're talking about $4 trillion
in spend,
four million people, when you
include the
military, hundreds of different
operating
entities and the agencies.
You have got 4,000 political
appointees; 1,100
of them have to go through
Senate confirmation.
No other democracy has that kind
of penetration
of political appointees in
government.
It's a phenomenally complex,
important, and
critical process that is
typically very ill-understood.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, what does a
president-elect
coming in and his or her team,
what do they
have to get right from the
start?
MAX STIER: Right from the start,
they have
to understand how difficult this
process is,
and that history is not
sufficient guidance
for what has to come going
forward.
Transition is also the point of
maximum vulnerability
for our country.
In a post-9/11 world, getting
this right is
essential, not just for the
president to be
able to achieve their policy
objectives, but
also to keep us safe.
Job number one is to get your
team on the
field when the clock starts, and
that means
January 20 at noon.
And that's not going to be
everybody, but
our view is, you should have
your full White
House in place and at least your
top 100 Senate
confirmed positions that are
leading the agencies
that are critical to running
government.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we look at
this and we
hear some of the names that have
been announced
so far by Donald Trump.
Most of them either haven't
served in government
or, if they have, they haven't
served in the
executive branch.
Why does that matter?
MAX STIER: It matters because
running these
agencies is a phenomenally
difficult task.
And so when you think about
running a large
organization, and you want
people who have
done that before, it's harder in
the government
than it is in the private
sector.
Truth is that almost -- and I
mean this -- almost
nobody ever comes into the
government at the
senior levels with having the
experience of
having done it before.
It's new for everybody.
The learning curve is very
steep.
One exception, obviously, is
someone like
Elaine Chao, who's both at
Transportation
and at Labor.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
MAX STIER: But that truly is the
exception.
These are incredibly hard jobs
to get right.
And as much experience as you
have is good,
but you really need to
contextualize that
experience to specific issues
you face in
government.
And that requires a lot of
learning fast.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you assess
so far -- I
know we're still early in the
process -- that
the Trump team is doing in terms
of getting
its arms around what's coming?
MAX STIER: So, I think that they
have a long
distance still to travel.
They did some very, very good
pre-election
planning.
Now they're at game time.
They're obviously naming a punch
of people.
But naming them isn't the same
thing as getting
them into the seats.
Clearing conflicts have to
happen.
They have to go through the
Senate confirmation
process.
They have a background checks
that the FBI
does.
That's a very difficult process
in the ordinary
course.
And for a number of these
people, especially
with high net worth, very
complicated holdings,
it makes it even harder.
They have got a long distance to
travel.
I think the key here is not to
focus on single
individuals, but, one, have they
adopted the
right goals?
And, again, that means getting
their leaders
in place at the beginning,
coming to the table
with a management agenda,
starting right with
Congress and with other critical
stakeholders,
like the career work force,
which they will
have to run.
Those are the things that they
need to set
up now.
And then they need to
demonstrate this in
the next couple of months, that
they're ready
to go when they own the place.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And how are these
skills that
are required right now different
from the
skills in the private sector?
I mean, Donald Trump clearly
comes out of
the business world.
Many of the people he's named
come out of
the business world with these
early names.
MAX STIER: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There are more to
come.
But what's different in the
muscles that are
needed?
MAX STIER: It's a great
question.
And I would say one positive is
that the government
does need smart business
principles.
And when you get someone who has
run an organization
in the private sector in a good
way, there
are great principles that can be
transferred
over.
They need the good principles,
but government
cannot be run like a business,
so some differences.
Starts with Congress.
So, when you're in the private
sector, you
don't have to worry about a
board of directors
that is in conflict with each
other, that
doesn't provide you with a
budget, that doesn't
have a capital budget.
The working-with-Congress piece
is phenomenally
different and very complicated.
You have a high degree of
transparency.
You have multiple different
stakeholders.
And you have scale that you
almost never see
in the private sector that you
have in government.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And just quickly,
finally,
Max Stier, to the public
watching out there
who doesn't know a lot or really
isn't that
interested in the inner workings
of government,
why should they care about this?
MAX STIER: Right.
Well, fundamentally, this is --
it all begins
in the beginning.
If you get the beginning wrong,
you're playing
catchup for the rest of your
administration.
It starts with national
security.
That's the core function of our
government.
Again, transition is the point
of maximum
vulnerability for our
government.
We have a lot of enemies out
there.
They're looking to see whether
or not that
baton handoff is clean, that the
new leadership
is actually ready.
So, that's where it begins.
But it's also all the other
things we get
from our government.
In order for that to happen
right, we need
the new president to be ready on
day one,
people in place, right goals, a
management
agenda, and understanding how
the whole process
works.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Max Stier with
the Partnership
for Public Service, thank you so
much for
coming by.
MAX STIER: Thank you very much.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Next: how a
passion for
improvisation can make beautiful
music.
Two jazz stalwarts rejoin forces
for a new
album and a series of concerts.
Jeffrey Brown has the story.
JEFFREY BROWN: The song, Hoagy
Carmichael's
1938 ballad "The Nearness of
You," performed
as a kind of conversation
between two master
musicians who happen to be peers
and friends,
saxophonist Joshua Redman,
pianist Brad Mehldau.
BRAD MEHLDAU, Pianist: If you're
going to
play a ballad with someone, and
you want it
to be anything deeper than this
just sort
of surface, you're going to have
to be vulnerable
for the other person.
And that's what the audience
wants to see,
too.
JOSHUA REDMAN, Saxophonist: Yes.
Jazz is all about vulnerability.
BRAD MEHLDAU: So, you got to...
JEFFREY BROWN: Vulnerability?
(CROSSTALK)
BRAD MEHLDAU: Yes.
JOSHUA REDMAN: I think so, yes,
because we're
improvising, you know?
And we're not coming to the
bandstand with
a preconceived notion of what
we're going
to play.
We have to be open and available
and vulnerable
to really make that connection
with ourselves
and with the other musician.
JEFFREY BROWN: Redman, 47, and
Mehldau, 46,
have been filling concert halls
and jazz clubs,
on their own, as band leaders,
and together,
for more than 20 years.
This fall, they have joined
forces again in
a recent performance at New
York's Jazz at
Lincoln Center, and on a
newly-released album
titled "Nearness," a mix of
original material
and jazz standards recorded live
on tour in
2011.
JOSHUA REDMAN: I feel so
fortunate to be able
to make the music that I believe
in, and to
get up there every night and
just play from
the soul and go for it.
BRAD MEHLDAU: As an improvising
musician,
I really feel committed to not
going out there
and playing some nonsense for
people, you
know?
(LAUGHTER)
BRAD MEHLDAU: There's a bit of a
script.
We have some plan, but what they
want to hear
is, they really want to hear us
try to be
creative.
JEFFREY BROWN: Both men came to
music early.
Redman, in California, was
raised by his dancer
mother, and is the son of
well-known saxophonist
Dewey Redman, Mehldau in Florida
and Connecticut
in a family home never without a
piano.
They arrived separately in New
York in the
early 1990s, where each found
his own early
success.
We spoke recently at the
Steinway Piano Showroom
in Manhattan just before a
concert.
BRAD MEHLDAU: Even when I'm
ostensibly accompanying
him, and he's ostensibly taking
the solo,
we're still having this
conversation.
So it may mean, for instance,
that he plays
a melodic idea, and then I
respond to it sort
of in real time, and I might
even give him
something back, that then he
responds to again.
JOSHUA REDMAN: I'm always
looking for something.
BRAD MEHLDAU: And he's kind of
waiting for
it.
He's like, come on, what do you
got?
(CROSSTALK)
JEFFREY BROWN: What do you got?
BRAD MEHLDAU: Yes.
JOSHUA REDMAN: Well, and often
because I don't
have anything.
(LAUGHTER)
JOSHUA REDMAN: I always feel
like I'm -- as
an improviser.
I feel a little hamstrung by
this instrument
and its role in jazz, because
it's basically
a soloist instrument.
I play melodies, maybe some
accompanying harmonies
if there's another horn player,
and then I
will take a solo, and then I
have to go stand
at the side of the stage.
You know, I have rhythm section
envy because
they get to, like, be in there,
and always
-- you know, they're always
listening, always
reacting.
But I feel like my best ideas
often don't
come from me.
They come from the other
musicians that I'm
playing with, and especially
when I'm playing
with someone like Brad.
JEFFREY BROWN: I asked for a
demonstration,
and the two launched into some
blues.
BRAD MEHLDAU: One thing that
Josh does that's
very exciting for me, as an
accompanist, is
BRAD MEHLDAU: One thing that
Josh does that's
very exciting for me, as an
accompanist, is
that I throw him a curve in the
middle of
his phrase.
So, he was starting to start a
phrase that
was a little more conventional.
And he was going to kind of wrap
it up, OK,
we gave you an illustration, by
returning
to the melody.
And then I -- in the middle of
that phrase,
I sort of went -- and I
harmonically went
off the chart of what would be
the normal
harmony there in this 12-bar
blues we're playing.
In real time, somehow, he heard
me doing that
and adjusted his phrase in the
middle of the
phrase.
JEFFREY BROWN: Is that an
intellectual process
that he just described, where he
switches
and you have to react quickly,
or it just
happens?
JOSHUA REDMAN: That's an
excellent question.
Whatever it is, if I feel like
it's an intellectual
process, then I'm not
successful.
JEFFREY BROWN: It's not going to
work.
JOSHUA REDMAN: It's an
emotional, it's an
intuitive process.
I mean, of course it's happening
in the brain,
right, but if I'm thinking about
responding
in that way, then I'm
overthinking it, and
I probably won't do it well.
BRAD MEHLDAU: It's very exciting
to really
improvise, and to have that
moment.
And it's also very social music.
A lot of times, you're with
other people.
And to have that white-heat kind
of communication
between another musician, it's
very -- it's
pretty exciting.
JOSHUA REDMAN: It's a great time
to be a jazz
musician.
JEFFREY BROWN: After our talk,
Joshua Redman
and Brad Mehldau set off on a
European tour,
and the two continue to perform
their separate
gigs.
From New York, I'm Jeffrey Brown
for the "PBS
NewsHour."
HARI SREENIVASAN: After Jeff's
interview,
Redman and Mehldau played a song
from the
new album just for us.
You can see that private
performance in its
entirety on our Web site,
PBSNewsHour.org.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now to our
"NewsHour" Shares,
something that caught our eye
that might be
of interest to you, too.
Rain showers and chilly
temperatures did little
to dampen spirits at the annual
lighting of
the U.S. Capitol Christmas Tree
this evening.
This year's tree is an 80-foot
Engelmann spruce
from McCall, Idaho.
Joan Cartan-Hansen of Idaho
Public Television
has been following the man
tasked with finding
that tree, and she sent us this
profile.
JOAN CARTAN-HANSEN: Chris
Niccoli's day job
is fighting wildfires out of the
smokejumpers
base in McCall, Idaho.
But for the last several months,
he's had
a new assignment.
CHRIS NICCOLI, U.S. Forest
Service: I'm also
the logistic section for the
U.S. Capitol
Christmas Tree.
JOAN CARTAN-HANSEN: That means
Niccoli is
the man responsible for finding,
cutting,
and supervising the shipping and
delivery
of the U.S. Capitol's Christmas
tree.
Since 1970, the U.S. Forest
Service has provided
the Christmas tree that stands
on the Capitol
grounds.
This year's tree comes from
Idaho's Payette
National Forest.
Niccoli started seriously
looking for the
tree last spring.
When he would find a contender,
he'd mark
the GPS location and take a
picture.
CHRIS NICCOLI: We're looking for
a Doug fir
or an Engelmann spruce-type
species.
You know, those are the
quintessential Christmas
trees look.
JOAN CARTAN-HANSEN: Niccoli
narrowed down
the choices to about a dozen
trees.
Then, last July, Ted Bechtol,
the superintendent
of the U.S. Capitol grounds,
came to Idaho
to make the final selection.
Deciding on the U.S. Capitol
Christmas Tree
is a lot like picking your
family tree, just
on a much bigger scale.
TED BECHTOL, Superintendent,
U.S. Capitol
Grounds: Sixty to 85 feet in
height, a nice
conical shape, because the tree
is viewed
from 360 degrees.
I have think we have seen
better, yes.
CHRIS NICCOLI: Yes.
We have better ones.
TED BECHTOL: A nice looking
tree.
CHRIS NICCOLI: It's a good
looking tree.
JOAN CARTAN-HANSEN: Just as
important as finding
the right tree is finding it in
the right
location.
Access is important, because
crews will have
to take this 11,000-pound tree
and put it
onto a 105-foot-long trailer.
They found the right combination
on the edge
of Little Ski Hill just west of
McCall.
On November 4, hundreds gathered
to watch
Niccoli and a fellow smokejumper
cut the prized
Engelmann spruce.
CHRIS NICCOLI: One inch.
One.
One inch.
There you have it.
It's just barely hanging on.
JOAN CARTAN-HANSEN: With a few
more cuts from
an axe, and a little pressure...
CHRIS NICCOLI: Here it comes,
Bill.
And she's free.
JOAN CARTAN-HANSEN: The tree,
all tied up
on the back of the
tractor-trailer, toured
Idaho for several days, and then
headed across
the country to its final home at
the U.S.
Capitol.
CHRIS NICCOLI: It's once in a
lifetime for
anybody involved, right?
And for me especially, I just
feel really
grateful.
It's great, yes.
It's really fun.
JOAN CARTAN-HANSEN: For the "PBS
NewsHour,"
I'm Joan Cartan-Hansen in Boise,
Idaho.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thanks to those
folks.
We don't think about all the
work that goes
into finding this tree.
HARI SREENIVASAN: I had
absolutely no idea.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And separate from
that, on
the "NewsHour" online right now,
find a poem
about the Standing Rock Dakota
pipeline standoff.
It's written by a member of the
Lakota Sioux
Tribe.
That and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Tune in later
tonight.
On "Charlie Rose": the winner of
this year's
Pulitzer Prize for Fiction, Viet
Thanh Nguyen.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.